How can we show some feedback to our users?
Well if you go into the root index.html file here, you'll see that there I prepared two templates - one
for a modal in general with a backdrop we can display and with a modal container and then one for the
content of such a modal we could display
and I'm splitting this up so that theoretically, we could display a modal with any content to have the
general container and look and then insert different pieces of content.
Now here I only need one specific piece of content, I want to show a modal so an overlay on the screen
which shows a loading spinner
and this will display a loading spinner because I also give you the extra CSS code which you'll
find in here in app.js to generate such a loading spinner, all with CSS.
So this is something we can utilize here and for that, I want to be able to display a modal, so such an overlay
and I'll do this in a new class, I'll even do it in a new file, in a new subfolder in my source folder,
I'll name the folder UI for user interface,
so these should be some general user interface components if you want to call them like this
and in there I want to add a modal.js file.
Now this is a Javascript file which should be responsible for displaying a modal and rendering content
in there.
Now of course there are different ways of creating such a modal but here, I will create a class, modal
and in there, I want to have a couple of methods that help us control this modal, to be precise there should
be two methods, a show method and a hide method and a modal is simply an overlay on the screen and with
show, I want to be able to show such an overlay, with hide I want to be able to hide it.
Now I also need a constructor and in there, I want to be able to get the information, which content should
be shown and then we can create different instances of this modal class with different content we're
passing into the constructor so that we always will use the same frame here, the same backdrop but we
can pass in different content. Now for that in modal.js here in the constructor, we could expect a
content ID argument here for example,
so the ID of the template or of the HTML tag that holds our content and then in here, in the constructor,
I want to create two new properties,
a content template element,
again this is a property because we store it with the help of the this keyword where I get my element
by ID, the content ID.
So this will give me access to the template element in the DOM that has this ID,
so for example if we want to show the loading spinner, the template ID would be this ID, we pass
this to the modal class and we would get access to this template DOM element.
Now we also need to modal itself,
so the backdrop and the container and for that,
I'll get my modal template element with document get element by ID
and there I want to get this ID, modal template is the ID and that's therefore the ID
I will fetch here and of course my mistake, content ID here should not be a string, I instead want to use
this argument here which in turn should hold a string
but I want to use the argument here so that this is really dynamic.
So with that we get access to these elements we need to render the modal,
now when show is getting called, I want to use these elements to bring them on the screen and show
them there.
Now for that, we can use our template tag here and before we do so, let's search for MDN template
to find the documentation on this template tag and there if we scroll down to the bottom, we see it's actually
not supported in Internet Explorer,
so there this might not work. Hence there,
I actually want to be able to have a little fallback or at least something on the screen, so we
can't use our template there and
therefore you actually might want to implement a bigger workaround around this issue, here
I want to check if the template tag is available and if it's not, well then I want to do something which
could replace this modal here.
We can check if the template is available by checking if the content property is available in document
create element template.
Now this is a weird syntax, what am I doing here?
Document create element creates a new DOM element and I create a template element. Now on Internet Explorer,
this will fail because Internet Explorer doesn't know that, therefore in Internet Explorer this is basically
undefined and with the in keyword, we can check if this object here on the right and every element, every
DOM element is just an object as you learned, if it has this property
and if this is undefined as it would be on Internet Explorer, then this here would of course not exist
as a property and therefore this would yield false,
so we would not make it into this if block.
So if we don't support the template tag and this is simply a little trick for checking if we do, well
then we make it into the else block
and here you want to have some fallback code to do something else instead of showing this overlay here,
you could for example show an alert. So you could show an alert
and here you could get some fallback text here and then store this here, this fallback text is fallback
text so that we store this in a property
and here we could show our fallback text, this would be a very basic workaround but it would be a workaround
where we at least show something to the user in case our template is not supported.
Now depending on which kind of application you're building and what you plan on doing in the modal if
it's more than just showing a loading spinner, then you might need a bigger workaround, you might need
to be more flexible and build your application in a totally different way.
Here, this fallback text should be all we need and therefore this is the approach I'll go for if the
template tag is not supported which we check with this approach.
If we do make it into this if block, we know the template tag is available,
so selecting the template tag here in the DOM, here in the DOM will work and we can use that to render
our modal, our overlay onto the screen. For that I can first of all get my modal content by calling document
import node,
this is how you use the content of a template and create a node based on it
and here I want to point at the modal template element,
so for the modal and the backdrop itself and there, the content property which exists there and pass
in true so that we make a deep clone in the end.
So what this will do is this will give us access to these two divs here in the end and they are in the
end stored in our modal content now,
so not the content we want to display in there,
maybe that's a bit deceiving,
let's say name it modal elements instead. That's what we have access to here,
it's one object which in the end gives us access to the backdrop div and the modal div.
Now of course I need access to specifically the modal div or the backdrop div and for that, we can build
up on modal elements there.
So I can get my modal element here by using modal elements,
so this constant we just created here and there, we can use query selector and then .modal to get
access to the element with the class, the CSS class modal which is this div here
and for the backdrop we can do the same with the backdrop class.
So here we can duplicate this and have our backdrop element here with the backdrop class we're selecting,
so now we got access to the two elements that we need as a frame and as a background for our modal overlay.
Now we just need to get access to the actual content we want to display in there,
so here I'll create a new content now, content element and we can get this with document import node
and then this content template element.content and also create a true deep clone here with true
as a second argument
and this gives us access to the actual content we want to display based on the content ID we got here
in our constructor.
So now we got all the pieces together, now we just need to add it to the page.
So first of all on the modal element itself, I will append or append child if you want to have best cross
browser support
my content element and then we need to add the modal element and the backdrop element into our DOM, for
that we can use document body and use insert adjacent element which you learned about and then after
begin to basically add it inside of the body but right at the beginning of the body, the modal
element and then repeat that for the backdrop element
and now when we call show here on that modal, we should be able to show it.
Let's test this and let's go back to share place, the SharePlace.js
file and in there, we now need access to the modal which we create, to the modal class here which we create
in modal.js. Well actually, to have that access,
we should export it here first,
so in modal.js export the modal class and in SharePlace.js, we can now import it.
So here we can import something from ./ui/modal, without .js, webpack will add that
for us, so just like this
and now here, the something I import is the modal class, so we're using a named import here because we have
a named export here in the modal.js file.
So now we import that here into place finder and we're next to the place finder class I should say,
therefore we can use it in the place finder class here when we actually start getting the user location,
at this point
I want to create the modal and I want to get rid of it when we were successful or when we failed, even
if we failed
I want to get rid of the modal because we're done trying to get the user location at least.
So here I get my modal with new modal and now there we need to pass in two arguments,
the first argument is the ID of our content which is loading modal/content, so let's copy that
string here and pass this as a first argument,
second argument is the fallback text, loading location please wait
and that would be the text for the alert we show if the template tag is not supported
and then we can call modal show and now in success result, I want to call modal hide and this will
of course only execute once this anonymous function executes which only happens once we got the user
location or if we failed I'll of course do the same so that in this case, we also hide the modal.
And with all of that, if we go back and we click on get current location, you should see that overlay
and that should stay there until we get the user location but right now it's not getting hidden because
at the moment in our modal, the hide method is not doing anything.
So that will be the next thing we do
and of course feel free to first try that on your own before we now implement this functionality together.